fmsynth/docs/fx.markdown, before:

# Tone commands

All frequencies are affected by MUL/DIV/DET.

## 00xx

Set frequency to semitone `(xx/2)-2`. This affects the ending note of a portamento (0x03).

## 01xx

Adjust frequency by `xx-128` cents. This affects the ending note of a portamento (0x03).

## 02xx

Slide frequency by `xx-128` cents/tick. This affects the ending note of a portamento (0x03).

## 03xx

Slide frequency to current note by `xx` cents/tick.

##04xy

Arpeggio at note, note+`x` semitones, note+`y` semitones. Each note lasts 1 tick.

## 05xx

Set vibrato intensity to ±`xx×50` millis.

## 06xx

Adjust vibrato intensity by `xx-128` millis.

## 07xx

Slide vibrato intensity by `xx-128` millis/tick.

## 08xx

Set vibrato to use LFO #`xx`. This value is clamped to the range `0-3`.

## 09xx

Set frequency multiplier to `xx+1`. This value is clamped to the range `0-31`.

## 0Axx

Set frequency divider to `xx+1`. This value is clamped to the range `0-31`.

## 0Bxx

Set detune to `(xx-128)×10` cents.

## 0Cxx

Adjust detune by `xx-128` millis.

## 0Dxx

Slide detune by `xx-128` millis/tick.



# Envelope commands

## 10xx

Set attack rate to `xx`.

## 11xx

Set decay rate to `xx`.

## 12xx

Set sustain level to `xx`.

## 13xx

Set sustain rate to `xx`.

## 14xx

Set release rate to `xx`.

## 15xx

Set key scale ratio to `xx`. This value is clamped to the range `0-7`.

## 16xx

Set repeat mode to `xx`. This value is clamped to the range `0-4`.

## 17xx

Set tremolo intensity from `1x` to `0x - 1x`.

## 18xx

Set tremolo to use LFO # `xx`. This value is clamped to the range `0-3`.



# Trigger commands

Any command that triggers after a delay will not trigger if that delay puts it after the current row, but any other effect in the same row will be registered anyways. These commands ignore the operator mask.

## 20xx

Delays row by `xx` ticks. Any other command, and any further delay/repeat will be relative to the end of this command.

## 21xx

Trigger note off after `xx` ticks.

## 22xx

Trigger note cut after `xx` ticks.

## 23xx

Trigger note on after `xx` ticks. This note on is neither legato nor staccato, and supersedes the legato/staccato column value.

This command does not delay the natural note on, just retriggers it.

## 24xx

Fully retriggers the note, envelope and wave generators, after `xx` ticks.

This command does not delay the natural note on, just retriggers it.

## 25xx

Send note on every `xx` ticks.

## 26xx

Fully retriggers the note, envelope and wave generators, every `xx` ticks.



# Synth commands

## 3yxx

Set modulation intensity from operator `y&3` to operator `y/4`, to ±`π*xx/127.5`. This command ignores the operator mask.

## 40xx

Set operator `y` output to `xx/2.55`%.

## 41xx

Set waveform phase to `xx/2.56`%.

## 42xx

Set waveform #`xx`.

## 43xx

Set waveform duty cycle to `xx/2.56`%.



# Jump commands

## 50xx

Jump to order `xx`.

## 51xx

Jump to next order, row `xx`.

## 52xx

Delay playback by `xx` ticks.




# Global commands

## 60xx

Set LFO waveform `xx`.

## 61xx

Set LFO frequency to `xx`.

## 62xx

Set LFO duty cycle to `xx/2.56`%.

## 63xx

Set LFO phase to `xx/2.56`%.

## 64xx

Set song speed to `xx` ticks/row.

## 65xx

Set song speed to `xx` ticks/second.

Commit message:

Synthesis commands implemented. Corrected an NPE in the wave selection.

fmsynth/docs/fx.markdown, after:

# Tone commands

All frequencies are affected by MUL/DIV/DET.

## 00xx

Set frequency to semitone `(xx/2)-2`. This affects the ending note of a portamento (0x03).

## 01xx

Adjust frequency by `xx-128` cents. This affects the ending note of a portamento (0x03).

## 02xx

Slide frequency by `xx-128` cents/tick. This affects the ending note of a portamento (0x03).

## 03xx

Slide frequency to current note by `xx` cents/tick.

##04xy

Arpeggio at note, note+`x` semitones, note+`y` semitones. Each note lasts 1 tick.

## 05xx

Set vibrato intensity to ±`xx×50` millis.

## 06xx

Adjust vibrato intensity by `xx-128` millis.

## 07xx

Slide vibrato intensity by `xx-128` millis/tick.

## 08xx

Set vibrato to use LFO #`xx`. This value is clamped to the range `0-3`.

## 09xx

Set frequency multiplier to `xx+1`. This value is clamped to the range `0-31`.

## 0Axx

Set frequency divider to `xx+1`. This value is clamped to the range `0-31`.

## 0Bxx

Set detune to `(xx-128)×10` cents.

## 0Cxx

Adjust detune by `xx-128` millis.

## 0Dxx

Slide detune by `xx-128` millis/tick.



# Envelope commands

## 10xx

Set attack rate to `xx`.

## 11xx

Set decay rate to `xx`.

## 12xx

Set sustain level to `xx`.

## 13xx

Set sustain rate to `xx`.

## 14xx

Set release rate to `xx`.

## 15xx

Set key scale ratio to `xx`. This value is clamped to the range `0-7`.

## 16xx

Set repeat mode to `xx`. This value is clamped to the range `0-4`.

## 17xx

Set tremolo intensity from `1x` to `0x - 1x`.

## 18xx

Set tremolo to use LFO # `xx`. This value is clamped to the range `0-3`.



# Trigger commands

Any command that triggers after a delay will not trigger if that delay puts it after the current row, but any other effect in the same row will be registered anyways. These commands ignore the operator mask.

## 20xx

Delays row by `xx` ticks. Any other command, and any further delay/repeat will be relative to the end of this command.

## 21xx

Trigger note off after `xx` ticks.

## 22xx

Trigger note cut after `xx` ticks.

## 23xx

Trigger note on after `xx` ticks. This note on is neither legato nor staccato, and supersedes the legato/staccato column value.

This command does not delay the natural note on, just retriggers it.

## 24xx

Fully retriggers the note, envelope and wave generators, after `xx` ticks.

This command does not delay the natural note on, just retriggers it.

## 25xx

Resets the wave generator phase after `xx` ticks.

## 26xx

Send note on every `xx` ticks.

## 27xx

Fully retriggers the note, envelope and wave generators, every `xx` ticks.

## 28xx

Resets the wave generator phase every `xx` ticks.



# Synth commands

## 30xx – 33xx

Set modulation intensity from operator 1–4 to the operators selected by the operator mask, to ±`π*xx/127.5`.

## 34xx

Set operator output to `xx/2.55`%.

## 35xx

Set waveform #`xx`.

## 36xx

Set waveform duty cycle to `xx/2.56`%.

## 37xx

Set waveform phase to `xx/2.56`%.



# Jump commands

## 40xx

Jump to order `xx`.

## 41xx

Jump to next order, row `xx`.

## 42xx

Delay playback by `xx` ticks.




# Global commands

## 50xx

Set LFO waveform `xx`.

## 51xx

Set LFO frequency to `xx`.

## 52xx

Set LFO duty cycle to `xx/2.56`%.

## 53xx

Set LFO phase to `xx/2.56`%.

## 54xx

Set song speed to `xx` ticks/row.

## 55xx

Set song speed to `xx` ticks/second.
